README.md, before:

# Haste

Haste is an open-source pastebin software written in node.js, which is easily
installable in any network.  It can be backed by either redis or filesystem,
and has a very easy adapter interface for other stores.  A publicly available
version can be found at [hastebin.com](http://hastebin.com)

Major design objectives:

* Be really pretty
* Be really simple
* Be easy to set up and use

Haste works really well with a little utility called
[haste-client](https://github.com/seejohnrun/haste-client), allowing you
to do things like:

`cat something | haste`

which will output a URL to share containing the contents of `cat something`'s
STDOUT.  Check the README there for more details and usages.

## Tested Browsers

* Firefox 8
* Chrome 17
* Safari 5.3

## Installation

1.  Download the package, and expand it
2.  Explore the settings inside of config.js, but the defaults should be good
3.  `npm install`
4.  `npm start`

## Settings

* `host` - the host the server runs on (default localhost)
* `port` - the port the server runs on (default 7777)
* `keyLength` - the length of the keys to user (default 10)
* `maxLength` - maximum length of a paste (default none)
* `staticMaxAge` - max age for static assets (86400)
* `recompressStatisAssets` - whether or not to compile static js assets (true)
* `documents` - static documents to serve (ex: http://hastebin.com/about.com)
  in addition to static assets.  These will never expire.
* `storage` - storage options (see below)
* `logging` - logging preferences
* `keyGenerator` - key generator options (see below)

## Key Generation

### Phonetic

Attempts to generate phonetic keys, similar to `pwgen`

``` json
{
  "type": "phonetic"
}
```

### Random

Generates a random key

``` json
{
  "type": "random",
  "keyspace": "abcdef"
}
```

The _optional_ keySpace argument is a string of acceptable characters
for the key.

## Storage

### File

To use file storage (the default) change the storage section in `config.js` to
something like:

``` json
{
  "path": "./data",
  "type": "file"
}
```

Where `path` represents where you want the files stored

### Redis

To use redis storage you must install the redis package in npm

`npm install redis`

Once you've done that, your config section should look like:

``` json
{
  "type": "redis",
  "host": "localhost",
  "port": 6379,
  "db": 2
}
```

You can also set an `expire` option to the number of seconds to expire keys in.
This is off by default, but will constantly kick back expirations on each view
or post.

All of which are optional except `type` with very logical default values.

### Memcached

To use memcached storage you must install the `memcache` package via npm

`npm install memcache`

Once you've done that, your config section should look like:

``` json
{
  "type": "memcached",
  "host": "127.0.0.1",
  "port": 11211
}
```

You can also set an `expire` option to the number of seconds to expire keys in.
This behaves just like the redis expirations, but does not push expirations
forward on GETs.

All of which are optional except `type` with very logical default values.

## Author

John Crepezzi <john.crepezzi@gmail.com>

## License

(The MIT License)

Copyright © 2011-2012 John Crepezzi

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the ‘Software’), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ‘AS IS’, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE

### Other components:

* jQuery: MIT/GPL license
* highlight.js: Copyright © 2006, Ivan Sagalaev
* highlightjs-coffeescript: WTFPL - Copyright © 2011, Dmytrii Nagirniak

Commit message:

Clarified implicit dependencies
of redis and memcached

README.md, after:

# Haste

Haste is an open-source pastebin software written in node.js, which is easily
installable in any network.  It can be backed by either redis or filesystem,
and has a very easy adapter interface for other stores.  A publicly available
version can be found at [hastebin.com](http://hastebin.com)

Major design objectives:

* Be really pretty
* Be really simple
* Be easy to set up and use

Haste works really well with a little utility called
[haste-client](https://github.com/seejohnrun/haste-client), allowing you
to do things like:

`cat something | haste`

which will output a URL to share containing the contents of `cat something`'s
STDOUT.  Check the README there for more details and usages.

## Tested Browsers

* Firefox 8
* Chrome 17
* Safari 5.3

## Installation

1.  Download the package, and expand it
2.  Explore the settings inside of config.js, but the defaults should be good
3.  `npm install`
4.  `npm start`

## Settings

* `host` - the host the server runs on (default localhost)
* `port` - the port the server runs on (default 7777)
* `keyLength` - the length of the keys to user (default 10)
* `maxLength` - maximum length of a paste (default none)
* `staticMaxAge` - max age for static assets (86400)
* `recompressStatisAssets` - whether or not to compile static js assets (true)
* `documents` - static documents to serve (ex: http://hastebin.com/about.com)
  in addition to static assets.  These will never expire.
* `storage` - storage options (see below)
* `logging` - logging preferences
* `keyGenerator` - key generator options (see below)

## Key Generation

### Phonetic

Attempts to generate phonetic keys, similar to `pwgen`

``` json
{
  "type": "phonetic"
}
```

### Random

Generates a random key

``` json
{
  "type": "random",
  "keyspace": "abcdef"
}
```

The _optional_ keySpace argument is a string of acceptable characters
for the key.

## Storage

### File

To use file storage (the default) change the storage section in `config.js` to
something like:

``` json
{
  "path": "./data",
  "type": "file"
}
```

Where `path` represents where you want the files stored

### Redis

To use redis storage you must install the redis package in npm

`npm install redis`

and in your package manager of choice. In Ubuntu for example

`sudo apt-get install redis-server`

Once you've done that, your config section should look like:

``` json
{
  "type": "redis",
  "host": "localhost",
  "port": 6379,
  "db": 2
}
```

You can also set an `expire` option to the number of seconds to expire keys in.
This is off by default, but will constantly kick back expirations on each view
or post.

All of which are optional except `type` with very logical default values.

### Memcached

To use memcached storage you must install the `memcache` package via npm

`npm install memcache`

and in your package manager of choice. In Ubuntu for example

`sudo apt-get install memcached`

Once you've done that, your config section should look like:

``` json
{
  "type": "memcached",
  "host": "127.0.0.1",
  "port": 11211
}
```

You can also set an `expire` option to the number of seconds to expire keys in.
This behaves just like the redis expirations, but does not push expirations
forward on GETs.

All of which are optional except `type` with very logical default values.

## Author

John Crepezzi <john.crepezzi@gmail.com>

## License

(The MIT License)

Copyright © 2011-2012 John Crepezzi

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the ‘Software’), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ‘AS IS’, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE

### Other components:

* jQuery: MIT/GPL license
* highlight.js: Copyright © 2006, Ivan Sagalaev
* highlightjs-coffeescript: WTFPL - Copyright © 2011, Dmytrii Nagirniak
